Reading Presenting data:

- Tufte, "Visual Display" (1-77, 108-159, 178-191)

Quotes:

- "Graphical excellence is the well-designed presentation of interesting data - a matter of substance, of statistics, of design" (51).
- "Graphs must not quote data out of context" (74).
- "The number of information-carrying (variable) dimensions depicted should not exceed the number of dimensions in the data" (77).
- "The interior decoration of graphs generates a lot of ink that does not tell the viewer anything new. The purpose of decoration varies-to make the graphic appear more scientific and precise, to enliven the display, to give the designer an opportunity to exercise artistic skills" (107).
- "Graphs do not become attractive and interesting through the addition of ornamental hatching and false perspective to a few bars" (121).
- "No information, no sense of discovery, no wonder, no substance is generated by chartjunk" (121).
- "One supertable is far better than a hundred little bar charts" (179).

Pre-notes:

- Why does he leave so much space on the right side in his books? 
    - His book is a somewhat scientific representation of data visualization.
- There are visualizations for studying, and visualizations for references. One is to make you think and react to it, and the other is to help you et information quickly.

Response:

From discussions in class, and this reading I realize that diagrams should be different, even with the same data, if they serve different purposes. For example, there are visualizations for studying and understanding a particular dataset, and then there are visualizations for references. One is to make you think and react to it, and the other is to help you get information quickly. Tufte writes, "Graphical excellence is the well-designed presentation of interesting data - a matter of substance, of statistics, of design" (51). I believe that the design has to be different as context is different. Tufte stresses a lot on context being important; he writes "Graphs must not quote data out of context" (74). I interpret context as being the circumstance of why the reader has stumbled upon the visualization/graph.

Moreover, one of the points Tufte makes is similar to the discussion that we had in class about the grid of brains, and the differences in their color. Tufte writes, "The interior decoration of graphs generates a lot of ink that does not tell the viewer anything new. The purpose of decoration varies-to make the graphic appear more scientific and precise, to enliven the display, to give the designer an opportunity to exercise artistic skills" (107) (It might not have been a decoration, but could have been a filter for some medical use - lets assume it was a decoration). The decoration is important to help stress certain data points, and helps guide the individual into looking at what is important. Tufte writes about the red dots or highlights that are used to highlight high-cancer zones on maps. 

I also have a question: the book is very much displayed to have a lot of whitespace on the right side. Why is that? His book is a somewhat scientific representation of data visualization so I was trying to use his work to try and figure out why he does that. Also, similar to what Zoe said, the diagrams are incredible. I was blown away by the diagrams on page: 34, 41, 115 (and many others) after I understood them.

Questions:

Learnings:

Class:

Research:

Links:
