The links that are made between warfare and entrepreneurship or the
business world today intrigued me while reading the chapter on the
analysis, and also its links to go. His five key concepts, Tao, Tien,
Di, Jiang, and Fa can all be linked to the entrepreneurial activity
that happens in the start-up market today. Sun Tzu describes 'Tao' as
the central mission in our lives, it can be applied in business to see
and evaluate the market demand for products. His description can lead
to saying that individuals in societies use products that can help
them in solving the central mission in their lives, and that creating
these products will attract these people towards the product. Linking
this with 'Tien', the situation, which he describes as the seasons and
the temperature, the uncontrollable factors, it can be suggested that
we should take advantage the fluctuations in the market or in the
economic environment. The concept of Jiang is the most interesting out
of the other concepts, it is the concept of leadership or command. It
is interesting because he describes the abilities and qualities in a
lot of detail, and that leaders in any situation defines the
organisation by his abilities in making the correct decisions. Lastly,
if we were to apply these skills into any field in my opinion we they
would work as there is always an element of war and the same
psychological thinking involved. His philosophies can be said to
mirror the game of Go or to be derived from it in my opinion, where
his philosophy of outthinking the enemy compared to outfighting the
enemy is shown directly in the tactics of go masters, and in the
tactics of playing the game itself.

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z8Xvxop_cFc - This is a short but
interesting video about the comparison of chess and go.