In the chapters “Play and War” (Huizinga 89) and “Play and Law” (Huizinga 76) Huizinga makes several remarks about the integration of Play and War, or Play and Law. Firstly, Huizinga defines the limitation to “Play and Law” by saying that it is only a cultural function when the members regard each other as antagonists with equal rights, and that it operates in a specific environment with a specific set of rules. He poses an interesting example of the British judge’s wig, as he says that it is more than just a “mere relic of antiquated professional dress” (Huizinga 77), and that transfers the person who is wearing it into another being. In a way this has connections to play because it is said to have a connection with the “dancing masks of savages” (Huizinga 77). The connection can be made as they used to wear these “masks” (Huizinga 77) when chanting or dancing, and these relate to a sort of playfulness, and this association reveals the important role that play actually has in culture, and how it is carried on and adapted from hunting and gathering societies to industrial societies. On the other hand, observing the context at when this book was written, during the world war 2, one interpretation could be that it was insensitive that he associated war and play together, while millions of people were losing their lives. However, war could also be referred back to the contest theory he showed, where it is just a contest for one person to win, but also extends to the lives of money people. In addition, he also calls “armed conflict” (Huizinga 91) as a mode of doing justice to someone or as a form of legal proceeding that can occur, which is true, nonetheless it still goes against his rules about play not being serious. Finally, a fascinating point he poses is that if the “play-spirit” (Huizinga 101) is missing, then the “civilization is impossible” (Huizinga 101), this point here encompasses his whole general theory about the grand importance of the “play-spirit”, and something we only associate while growing up is actually an intergral part of our daily life.

Cited Work

Huizinga, Johan. "Johan Huizinga." Amazon.com: : Books, Biography, Blog, Audiobooks, Kindle. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Sept. 2012. <http://www.amazon.com/Johan-Huizinga/e/B000AQ4O9M>