I believe that the last paragraph of the reading summarises the way about I understand weiqi - the game of go. I tried to understand the way how some of the quote relates to the way I have formalised my knowledge of Go and the concepts I have grasped from The Art of Warfare. While reading these texts I have learnt an important concept that "the life of one if the non-life of the other" - I have learnt to see this in two ways. Firstly the concept of sacrifice of some units, in the case of military units, for the good of the whole and secondly the concept of dead and alive stones. In addition, both in terms of a military tactic and as a go player, "the strong configuration of one corresponds to the weakness of the other", it is advantageous to have a strong wall of stones or soldiers where one "affirms [their] position but does not forget the possibility of being destroyed" and takes the opportunity to weaken the opponent while also trying to understand the opponents moves and tactic. Lastly, where one would attack with peace but not inactiveness as being inactive would lead to a lost opportunity or could be the winning chance for your opponent. Overall, some parts of this essay were very insightful and stimulating in links between go and the Art of Warfare.

The Last Paragraph:

It may be said that, in weiqi, the life of one is the non-life of the other, that the near and the far complement each other, that the strong configuration of one corresponds to the weakness of the other, that the advantage of one is the disadvantage of the other. This means peace but not serenity, it means that one may establish oneself but not remain inactive. In the same way that danger may lurk behind peace and serenity, remaining inactive means being annihilated. Remember the words contained in Yijing: “The junzi is at peace but does not forget the danger; he affirms his position but does not forget the possibility of being destroyed!S