There are several interesting observations that Huizinga makes in this chapter about the word “play”; he classifies it in many different languages, such as Greek, Hebrew, Sanskrit, Chinese, and Japanese. It was quite surprising to find that one of his observations were incorrect, as referenced from a Hebrew website (1), and a colleague. I observed that the word “sahaq” actually doesn’t have the multiple meanings of both “laughing” and “playing”. Although the words for “laughing” and “playing” in Hebrew sound similar, the word for “sachaq” is for playing, and the other is “tza-chaq”, which is laughing; this similarity in pronunciation has most probably led to this error. This made me doubt, as it made me doubt the other references he makes to different languages, and whether or not they are correct. In addition, I also disagreed on the quote “The heroic period is over, and the agonistic phase, too, seems a thing of the past”,  as I believe that the heroic period is not yet over, there will always be different kinds of hero that emerge, and not the stereotypical hero that many people often refer back too, but a hero of the common man as said by David Crockett. However, these chapters also give insight into success, and why it links in with play, as in some cases, people succeed purely to “boast” about their success to others. Huizinga also describes play as “primary” in the relationship between play and culture, which is interesting as he explained that play actually shapes the way our culture is, and enhances the values we get out of it. In conclusion, it is quite surprising to realize the different connotations of the word 'play', and the number of cultures that have recognized play as a part of human interaction, as well as the fact that the word was defined at different points in different languages.

(1): http://wiki.logos.com/Word_Studies_Using_Concepts_Taught_in_Hebrew_Videos