The final chapters of the book gave me new perspective on the game, and were very insightful. However, I still thought about last weeks discussion on why he spent so long looking at the image that he took of the Go Master. I came up with some conclusions: firstly, he wanted to absorb or glance at the masters image as he had never seen him so clearly in a way he would before if he was in front of him and have an image that would capture him before his death. There is something similar we do in our culture where we have an image of people who pass away near where we pray or at the place we pray and there are days where we look at the picture and in a way pray and ask for a better or a good year ahead. This is usually an image that captures the person who has past away in a way that you can remember them, and I believe this is kind of the final image you are supposed to remember of that person even when you turn old. This is something similar that is happening in this where he is remembering the image that encapsulates his personality and something he would remember for the generations to come and something he can pass down of that person. Like a final image of the person that you could show your child and their children, and this is a key idea I found to be true in this as well.

Moreover, something else I found interesting was the idea that one of the players got an illness because of overexertion on Go. I found that quite amusing and funny at the same time. I wasn't able to picture a player who would have gotten sick or tired of playing too much Go, and this might just be me as an individual who hasn't played or been exposed to a life in this game. There was something quite funny about him getting sick from playing hours and hours of this game where one had to use nothing but his mind.