Play Element in Contemporary Civilization, and Western Civilisation sub Specie Ludi

In the Chapter of “Play element in contemporary civilization” Huizinga links play to American politics. He refers to American politics being the whole “apparatus of elections” (Huizinga 207). I found this quite interesting, as if you were to link this to politics now days, we’d see a similar spirit in the elections, where there is a sense of playful competition between the two parities, and he wrote this in 1938. This is significant as even 70 years later we see the same observations, and enforces that the play-like characteristic in campaigns actually does exist. The society as viewers aren’t able to see this playful competitiveness explicitly, however it exists in the mind frames of the parties that stand in the elections. They simply want to defeat the other party, one way or another using different types of tactics, and are willing to break the rules if necessary. In addition, Huizinga also comments on it being like a “natural sport” (Huizinga 207), and personally I would agree with this statement as the elections specifically in the United States are generally telecast around the whole world. They are very popular, and target not just the American audience but the global audience. In my opinion, they are like a sport as both the teams are very passionate in the game and, the Federal government, or in this case the company gets a revenue from reaching as big of an audience as they can. Moreover, the sport like element of elections also adds a play-like element. If we also consider the audiences of the elections, we are able to develop this argument further - the fact that the audiences are also engaged like they would in a sporting event. In conclusion, I believe that this one quote by Huizinga summarizes his book: “Civilization is, in its earliest phase, played. ... it arises in and as play, and never leaves it.” (Huizinga 173) as it explains the essence of play to the foundation of our society.

Cited Work

Huizinga, Johan. "Johan Huizinga." Amazon.com: : Books, Biography, Blog, Audiobooks, Kindle. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Sept. 2012. <http://www.amazon.com/Johan-Huizinga/e/B000AQ4O9M>