In the Chapter of “The Classification of Games” Caillois divides play into four man categories: agon, which is competition, alea, which is chance, ilinx, which is the pursuit of vertigo and minicry, which is the situation. Overall, categories are governed by the directions of ludus, which mean the emphasis on the rules, and paidia, the playfulness. The concept of Agon is very intriguing in this chapter, it comments on it as being one’s superiority recognized, which is very interesting when compared with Huizinga’s concept on total engagement in the game. Huizinga’s theory about play as being connected with no material interest, and no profit, which on a level contradicts the concept of Agon, which describes gaining superiority from the opposition an outcome of the game. Personally, I believe that Caillois’s concept of Agon is more realistic, and true when looking at human nature. However, the concept of Paidia was interesting, as it described of being a freedom from rules, and Huizinga also adds as play being free, and play being freedom, and the rules in a way contradicts the idea of freedom. In addition, we can link the idea of child’s play being like Paidia. It gradually moves to take on rules of society, to structure and develop not just mentally but playfully and loses this freedom as the rules increase. The development could be similar to learning a new game, when you don’t understand the rules you have the freedom, but by the time you understand the rules and the functions of the game, and become a master of it, you are limited to the rules you can play with, and in a way become an adult of the game. One the they both agree on is the fact that play is distinct from ordinary, the concept of Ludas, as a desire to find amusement in the arbitrary obstacles links in to the definition proposed by Huizinga.

Cited Work

Caillois, Roger. Man, Play, and Games. [New York]: Free of Glencoe, 1961. Print.