This weeks reading really put me into my place as a Go player. It was a very interesting read but also thought me the essence of playing each move in Go. I hadn't previously realised how long people actually spend playing each move and thinking everything they do in such detail. At one position it said that he spent "two hours and seven minutes on White 90" [86] - the move was so incredibly hard to make and the thought that went into thinking about the probability seems very overwhelming to me. I've never really experienced a position where it would take me 2 hours to make the next move, and I have actually never felt the need to wanting to do so. While reading this I was both surprised and scared that I was making a mistake in playing the game. I tried to follow the moves they were making and thinking about the thought they could have had thinking about the moves for time, but I didn't quite realise or understand how they could have used up the long periods of time thinking about the probability of the next move. Moreover, I think that they were thinking back to the different experiences they had with Go and I kind of realised that the more games you play the quicker you will get, but you will also gain more experience so it'll take you a longer time to make every move. I'm not sure if this thought applies to everyone, but it was something that I had been thinking the whole time while reading this game. The conversation between the Master and his mind when he was playing with the foreigner was very interesting. He felt "nervous" while the foreigner didn't feel nervous when surrounded by a group of people who were watching him play. It made me think about how people treat people who they think don't know much about their culture, 