The social example described in the book of the eskimo and his competitive nature in winning against his opponent, in this case an animal, bear, or fish describes all the play-like elements proposed by Caillois. The announcement at “each new hole” (Caillois 38) he makes is very interesting, the announcement of these actions he does, such as “cuts open the seal” adds both dramatic seriousness and also some playfulness to this competition, as well as to serve a social function. This would go against Huizinga’s definition of play, even though it would be culturally regarded as a form of play, and a competition. The announcement is playful because he in a way is trying to mock the opponent that he is facing, he is telling them what he's doing to them, however this mockery would only apply in this case of the opponent being a human. To the rest of the society it seems like mockery as he clearly shows that he is in control of the action, and this has a psychological effect on both his opponent and himself. On page 54 there is a very interesting table (Table II) that shows the results of the different category of play that he proposes. It was very interesting to see that he put down "Trickery" under a sense of competition, and this made me rethink my thinking of what he meant about competitiveness and Agon. Trickery would seem to be under many of these categories as it also falls under a chance, and a luck of the person actually being tricked rather than there being a sense of competition to trick the person or to get tricked. The person getting tricked wouldn't see it as a competition, but realise it as something serious, and the person who is tricking might think of it as a competition to trick the person. However, is a once sided competition, or a one-sided trickery considered competition? This was very fascinating to think about, as a one sided competition isn't play, or it could also be play as you are competing against yourself - your own limits.

Cited Work

Caillois, Roger. Man, Play, and Games. [New York]: Free of Glencoe, 1961. Print.