### February 18th: Photography and Empire (Guest Lecture, Professor Nerissa Balce)

- McCoy, Alfred (2009) Policing America's Empire: The United States, the Philippines and the Rise of the Surveillance State: 206-348.

### Weekly post (250 words) - 9pm

I found two quotations from the ninth chapter incredibly enlightening. McCoy writes in response to President Wilson's "surveillance state", "[after] years of pacifying an overseas empire where race was the frame for perception and control, colonial veterans came home to turn the same lens on America, seeing its ethical communities not as fellow citizens but the internal colonies requiring coercive controls" (McCoy, 294), and "in this process ... the United States ... creates a colony with circumscribed civil liberties and pervasive policing ... as the metropole's internal security apparatus starts to resemble the imperial, so its domestic politics begin to exhibit many attributes of the colonial" (McCoy, 295). These two quotations portray the intensity and impact that the experimentations had on the US. The shift in opinion from viewing them as "ethical communities" to viewing them as "internal colonies" is worth exploring. Earlier in the course we discussed negative and positive freedom, and this further restricts the negative freedom of an individual since they begin living in a more controlled environment. Honestly, I am still wrapping my head around this idea, and I am not too sure how to correctly express the impact on both negative and positive freedom.

The movie was very interesting! I really enjoyed the black and white nature that they portrayed in the film. There were two absolutes that were villains vs heroes. I was intrigued by the connection between the McClintock reading and the movie. I broadly thought that the movie equated to two quotations from McClintock. The movie could have said to be an advertisement to the American people the more americentric view of the world: "advertising's chief contribution to the culture of modernity was the discovery that by manipulating the semiotic space around the commodity, the unconscious as a public space could also be manipulated" (McClintock, 213). And the message in the whole moving being: "a white boy, clothed in a white apron bends benevolently over his "lesser" brother, bestowing upon him the precious talisman of racial progress" (214). This view from McClintock expresses what I believe the American's felt and this idea being a parent that we discussed in class.
