There were a lot of very interesting aspects that can be explored in a lot of depth in that movie. Firstly, the one most people mentioned in the post, and the one I found to be fascinating as well: the scene where they are picking the cast for their movie. This is, to me, the most obvious example in the movie of people coming into the country to gain access to resources without fully understanding the consequences.

In addition, the idea that they exploited these groups of individuals to reduce the cost of their movie totally makes sense. It definitely fits in with why most people wanted to colonize other countries: to gain access to resources and cheap capital. Even if we not focus on the directors and tv casts there's another plot where the giant multinational is attempting to take control over the water supply. I found this to be intriguing as the principle behind it is very similar as the film makers, but it is more subtle (yet more direct because it leads to a revolution) since it doesn't scream colonization directly. I say this because it happens in a lot of countries around the world already. Many large multinationals (such as The Coca-Cola Company) have opened up many different brands to sell their products in these smaller countries, but we don't always directly represent this as colonization. But, this movie showed the direct consequences that the people within these countries go through when that happens. The only thing I did not understand too well was why water was so important to their society -- was it just because it was going to become very expensive?

In addition, another very interesting scene was one with the government official. He questioned why didn't they pay their workers more if they were protesting against the increase in the price for water. I agree with Evan here -- the government is just trying to pass blame and responsibility and not offering a solution to the problem at hand.
