Exploring biases in the depictions of the Americas by the Europeans in order to relate them to the audience they were produced for

Abhi Agarwal

A lot of the depictions of the Americas that were made during the age of discovery were produced for an audience in mind, and did not always represent the true and accurate conditions in the areas they represented. They had inherent biases within them which stemmed from their eurocentric vision of the world or through an aim to please a particular party. This paper aims to explore these biases in more depth, and to explore how these possibly incorrect depictions formed global consciousness and shaped the worldview of individuals around the world. In addition, it also aims to understand what was lost or left unrecognized because of these biased depictions.

The European explorers that went into the new world to make observations, conquer land, create a trade network for their respected countries, and many other things, usually were driven by their motivations, which influenced the notes or letters they wrote back to the countries they represented. These letters or descriptions were the only way that the public, government officials, and others were able to shape their understanding of the world outside of their own country. This meant painters, poets, historians, and many other people used these letters and diagrams that went along with them to influence their work or to write social commentary on these ideas. Art was a particular way that influenced the upper class individuals, and as we recognized in class, a lot of the artists at that time depicted America very differently than it was. This is not only because of the biases and motivations within those letters, but also because the letters helped them reinforce their understanding of the world around them. This is a particular piece that we studied in class by Jan Van der Straet, which is his view on the Discovery of America. The piece depicts Amerigo Vespucci first discovering America, and his interaction with a woman.

The image that is shown above has a lot of different levels to it that help in depicting the different aspects of colonialism. The first particular level that the viewer experiences is one of the naked women, who is sitting on the hammock, interacting with Vespucci who is standing upright in a stance position completely clothed. In contrast to the women, Vespucci is wearing heavy armor, which in a way is the maximum amount of clothing a man could wear. In one of his hands he is holding a flag representing his country and the nation that supports him, and on the other hand he has an astrolabe which represents progress and exploration. The general observation that he looks heroic and somewhat like a savior. The women, on the other hand, is living outside, carries a weapon, which we can see leaning on the tree next to her, 

The women, to the reader, subconsciously depicts America. The idea of America being naked means that it lacks development and progress. It is stripped to its bare minimum. In addition, it also seems like the women was sleeping before Vespucci approached her. The motivation behind this could be to present the idea that Vespucci, or the Europeans, woke America up. This signifies that America was dormant and inactive before America arrived, and brought it progress.

Behind Vespucci, there are these modern and man built ships. This is juxtaposed by the raw nature that is behind the women where you are able to see animals in their natural habitat, and a peaceful coexistence of man and animal. The image of coexistence signifies savagery or backwardness as it is as if no progress had happened. This juxtaposes the ships since ships signify progress, globalization, and the ability for man to explore and conquer. The motivation by the author here is to present a case that depicts how little progress America had before the Europeans came to conquer.

Where she is living -- freely outside in the wild. She has a weapon that she carries. There does not seem to be any aspect of civilization and people are just living in different areas. She's living here and others are living elsewhere. No clothes. She kind of represented America from the author's perspective. Her nakedness represents the nakedness of America. If we consider her to represent America, perhaps he has came and awoken her. Thereby giving this idea that he somehow came to a sleeping America and made it wake up. Similar to the idea of giving something energy or reigniting some kind of energy.

Talk about the cannibalism aspect of these biases and the human leg in the background
Talk about the animals roaming free everywhere
Talk about the fire in the background
Was this what it was like when they discovered it? Probably not. They probably had a society and a settlement. They wanted it to seem like they didn’t so they could justify their actions.
Art was an important source of understanding at that time as it helped them imagine the new world that was being discovered. This was one way that would influence the wealthy individuals and their perception of the new world would trickle down into the middle class, which then spreads to the lower class individuals.
Talk about Hakluyt
“our general landed with 70 men or thereabout, and went up to their town, where we burnt 2 or 3 houses” (Cavendish, 276). They were writing with some motivation in mind. Either they wanted to write to show their power or to please the military back home. <Link to global consciousness>. “travel writing emerged as one of the early modern period’s most popular and flexible genres, and in a wide range of forms it educated and entertained readers, inspired national pride and commercial investment, and contributed to a public record of the world’s ‘markets, trade routes, personalities, and cultures” (Sherman)
Talk about exploring the reliability of this work and the global influence it caused based on the idea that it might not be real
