### May 5th: Muslim American Everyday Lives

- Bayoumi, Mustafa (2015) The Muslim American Life: Dispatches from the War on Terror. New York: 169-258.

### Essay

The talk by professor Bayoumi was incredibly helpful to understand the book more contextually. The informative style of his writing paired with the background information presented helped make these issues more approachable and humanizable. It was interesting to think about the categorization of people into groups in this book. In my quantification on social thought class we explored the reasons why individuals would group a cluster of people together, and it was interesting to build upon that during the class. I have been thinking a lot about the concept of emergence with this issue in mind. Emergence in the sense that smaller entities do not represent properties that exist in a larger group. Individuals know of Muslim people in their neighborhood and communities, and could have positive opinions of them, but feel that they are exceptions to their Islamophobia. I feel that there is this understanding that there are exceptions to their vision of Muslim people, but those people are the exceptions to what people perceive to be 'Muslim' people rather than the norm. Thereby, people feel that there are some smaller entities that they know who don't represent what they feel to the norm for Muslim people, and so they continue believing in their Islamophobia. I found the pattern interesting to explore along with the idea of clustering individuals together since I have been trying to understand why people develop this world view. It definitely has to deal with media, but I wanted to study the societal patterns in more depth.
