Assignment #2: What's at your local market?

A: When you go to your local supermarket, what do you see? How is the food arranged? What aisles do you walk down? How does that influence what you buy? For Part I of this assignment we would like for you to meet with a partner from class and take a day trip to two different food markets. For instance, you can wander in the East Village and go to Sunrise Mart on Stuyvesant Street, and then walk down to the Whole Foods on Houston. Or perhaps you may wish to go to the Hong Kong Supermarket in Brooklyn and then go to a C-Town Supermarket in Brooklyn? Regardless of which two markets you choose, treat each market visit as an ethnographic expedition. What do you immediately see when you walk into the store? How is the food ordered in the store? What is the geography of the space?

Go to the “noodles” and “dumpling” related sections including what you’d use for sauces and ingredients. Is this search convenient? Scattered? How so?

B: Bodegas are considered a main feature of New York’s cityscape. Although the term “bodega” is the Spanish word for “warehouse,” it is also a name that frequently refers to a corner store with a very specific store design. What is that specific store design and what is the store design of your own neighborhood bodega? For this part of the assignment we would like for you to go to the local bodega in your neighborhood. What does it look like from the outside? What are the food products that are sold? What other types of merchandise are sold? Is there a resident cat? Finally, how does your bodega reflect the neighborhood? Do you see the effects of gentrification on the shelves?

Again, look for noodles, dumplings, and ingredients you’d want to use. Is this search convenient? Scattered? How so?

C: Lab – Cognitive mapping. Ultimately, the collaboratory is about making delicious flavors. Passive consuming w/o knowing how to create the flavors simply isn’t good enough! In your kitchen or lab space, start reproducing the taste profiles that have represented “home.” And begin getting at the essence of what it is you love now. Reflect on this shift and on the continuities. Start drawing this out on a blank sheet of paper.

A.

Phil & I visited the Gracefully market on 1st and 23nd and the Westside Market on 3rd and 12st. The Gracefully market is an Asian-run market with American-deli like influences. When entering you see the cashiers on the front, the hot-food section on the right, and the milks and cheeses on the left. On a first observation it looks like a very organized store. There are all types of Kombucha teas, fancy coffees, soups, and croissants. Behind the register on the right is a deli where one can buy all kinds of gourmet sandwiches, and on the left is a section to buy chocolates, snacks, and noodles, sushi, and dumplings! There are a couple men who are making fresh sushi and dumplings that you are able to purchase right away, and three men who are taking order for noodles. You can see how they are making them as there is only a glass wall that divides you from them, which was pretty interesting to look at during the lunch hour. On the right to this section are stairs which take you to the second floor of the market. The second floor is mostly for produce, fruits, cereals, and home-accessories. The furthest part from the front door is the produce section, which, to me, seems a little strange. Perhaps the reason could be that most of the people who visit the store either buy hot-food or something from the deli. The pride themselves as a store that is all-organic, and having the produce at the back seems a little counter-intuitive to me. Everything they make in terms of hot-food and items on the deli-menu all seem very healthy and well-made. The produce are also well maintained, and there's an individual who is dedicated to keeping them fresh and well-refrigerated. In addition, they also have a meats-section, which seems quite well-stocked as well.

Next we visited the Westside Market. The first thing to notice is that the store has a lot of flowers and fruit on the outside. Usually the idea of having a lot fruit on the outside is unsettling to me. Street vendors who sell fruit are a different story since they usually have a smaller collection of fruit, but having a large collection of fruit exposed to outside dust and weather seems not-ideal to me. Perhaps it is the environment I grew up in, since in Bangkok one wouldn't normally leave things out in the open for an extended amount of time; there are mosquitoes, dust in the air, pollution, and much more. The entrance was very similar to Gracefully. There was a ready-to-eat section, a cashier, and a salad bar right upon entering the market. The items were not as well placed as they were in Gracefully, and it was hard to understand why things were positioned the way they were. The ready-to-eat section was near the coffee section, which seems like misplacement since the coffee section should be near the hot-food or deli. One would normally not buy a cup of coffee with a hot pot. There was a surprisingly large section for ready to eat / frozen dumplings and ramen, though. It was interesting to see the amount of variety there is. In addition, a couple friends also told me that there is a sitting area where people usually work inside Westside Market. This makes it feel like they are trying to make a community around the market - like a cafe has.

B.

Similar to Westside Market, Murray Hill Market also had an area for flowers on the outside. Murray Hill Market is on Lex and 34th. Upon entering, I was able to see the amount of variety that they had in this deli. There was a build-your-own-salad area, which was very interesting and very affordable as well. The prices here were a lot lower when compared to something I would find in the East Village or the salads at either Gracefully or the Westside Market. The isles were narrow as they are in most delis, but the cashier and the sandwich counter had a lot more than the rest of the store.
