Lots of different processes. Very hard to pinpoint what people use since it depends on the situation that it is being made for. The dish seems very contextual and very personalized to different people. Many people eat Daal baati with more than just the two big components. Sometimes they add yoghurt, or peas, or other types of dal. In many parts of Rajasthan they don't use an oven, but they bury it underneath the ground. This hardens the baati very differently. They use the heat from the ground in the day and the coolness of the desert in the night to cook it properly. Soldiers used to put do the same process and put the dough underneath the ground. When they returned from their trips they would take them out of the ground and enjoy them with ghee. It is high in calories and very nutritious for the desert weather.

I have experienced the dish in many different situations: festivals, home-made, at dhabas (roadside restaurants in India), restaurants, and at more traditional dinner-parties. It is not something you would get at parties unless you were at a traditional Rajasthani dinner party. The filling that people put in the Baati differs a lot between people. So there's always a lot of new ways of experiencing the dish. It never gets old for me since many of my friends and family make it very differently. A simple example is the amount of ghee you put: my mom's family soaks it in ghee for about 1 minute. So when you eat it, it is dripping with this clarified butter. It is very soft, and you can feel the ghee in your mouth. This is opposite to how my mom makes it: she puts a table spoon of ghee into each baati rather than dipping it into the ghee. This is because of the health-risks that come about when you soak it in ghee. The experience of eating either is very different. They are both very enjoyable since they taste very different. In one you experience this very rich home-made ghee. They also have fresh milk from the farm (rather than in bottles) so they make the ghee at home. The richness in flavor comes out when you make the ghee on the day of. On the other hand, my mom makes excellent dal. So I enjoy the richness of the dal when I eat this dish with my parents.

I am still trying to figure out the origins of the dish. It has been very hard to find proper information on where it came from and how it developed. I have been making calls to see if people understand and know about the history of Baati. Another experiment I want to do is to see why it is the to-go dish in Rajasthani culture -- especially in festivals. Why this particular dish? Is it because everyone loves it? Is it because it is simple to make for good chefs? Is it because it is highly nutritious?

Why is Dal Bati very culturally significant? How did the dish evolve culturally and economically? What were the different types of people in the city who were responsible to eat this dish? Unaffected or affected by the British colonization of the dish? The filling that people put in the Baati differs a lot between people. So there's always a lot of new ways of experiencing the dish. It never gets old for me since many of my friends and family make it very differently. Experience with attempting to understand the history of this dish. Making phone calls to people to try and understand since a lot of the history is not well documented. Why was it initially made and what different cultures in India influence it? Who were the people who used to eat it in the past? India used to have Kings rather than democratic parties -- and this dish is from that time. The history of lentils and how these types of beans became important in Indian history. Is it for nutrition or because of their availability? This is very different from the other Rajasthani food and other types of Indian food. How did the Indian cuisine develop so differently to the neighboring states in the country? How did its history of being colonized affect India and by extension Rajasthani cuisine. There aren't many hard bread objects in India cuisine. Most of them are soft breads. There's a lack of these dishes in NYC. Why is that? It's a delicious dish. Variations is important to understand: how did the culture in different parts of the state evolve with the food? There's a clear distinction that we can draw from because the dishes evolved depending on availability of resources, and need. Hotter and farm land places had different variations. Super interesting to understand. Still trying to figure out the visual resources I can use for the dish.
