Valerie Forman
Becoming Global
Research Paper Assignment

In what issues or topics has this course spurred your interest? The objective of this research paper is to provide you with an opportunity to delve more deeply into the one that interests and inspires you the most. It is crucial that you choose a topic that matters to you and on which you will be excited to work.

Basic requirements for the paper:
1) Address an aspect of early modern globalization (1490-1700). The issue you research and write about does not have to have been a primary focus for the course. You are encouraged to shape the topic in a way that is useful and exciting and to you. Some of you might want to put an issue addressing early modern globalization in conversation with that of contemporary globalization. You are welcome, and even encouraged, to do so if this work will help you to make connections to other work you are doing, or would like to be doing. At least half of your paper should then discuss the period prior to 1700.
2) Incorporate analysis of at least one work we’ve discussed in the course. How you incorporate that work may vary widely from paper to paper. For example, it can be a main focus; it might be a springboard; or it might provide a conceptual or theoretical framework.
3) Conduct research and incorporate analysis of other works that are new to you.
4) 7-8 double spaced pages (with a 10 page maximum)
5) In addition to the above: a cover note and a List of Works Cited page.
6) Research Prospectus Due Along with Second Source Assignment no later than
 Friday April 22nd at noon. I will be holding short conferences the week of the 18th and 25th to discuss your prospectus with you. If you know you want to get started early turn in your prospectus early so that we can have your conference the week of the 18th.
7) Final Paper Due Monday May 9th by noon. Upload the paper and cover letter as one word attachment to NYU Classes...

- You can build on previous work and delve more deeply into issues you have explored, but the paper must also incorporate new work through which you re-envision the work you have done before.
- This paper can be connected to work you have done for other classes, but you can’t submit work you have or are submitting for another course. Similarly, you may incorporate works you have studied before but they do not substitute for the new research that you are conducting now.
- I encourage you to develop research topics that allow you to connect what we have been studying to your concentration or major if it will be productive for you to do so. You might choose a topic by thinking about how the ideas we’ve studied in this course add a new dimension to, or way of thinking about, issues that are central to your concentration—or vice-versa.
- If you want to integrate a creative aspect to your research paper, include this in your prospectus and then we can discuss how best to do so at our meeting.
- Try to narrow your topic. You might start with a broad issue or topic, but as you go through the process of doing your research, try to develop a specific question or more specific set of questions that you can address in a paper of about eight pages. Narrowing down the topic is often the difficult part. Let this be an ongoing process as you write the paper and make new discoveries. You may find that you want to approach the topic in a specific way based on what you become excited about as you do the research.
- Research papers take time to develop, so please start as early as possible.

What kind of research do you need to do? The answer depends on your topic. You might need to look at additional literary texts, travel narratives, economic documents, or visual images from the early modern period that address similar thematic concerns or that would give you insight into the ways different regions were incorporated into a newly globalized world or were understood to be incorporated. You might need to read literary critics, political theorists, anthropologists, or historians who have analyzed the issues raised in these documents. You will most likely want to look for some primary sources, that is, materials written in the period that pertain to your subject and will give you a broader and deeper understanding of the issues you want to explore. For example, imagine you want to write a paper that explores how encounters with the unfamiliar and that which does not fit easily into any already existing categories of knowledge required the blending of fact and fiction or even produced new genres of writing. You might then want to read additional travel narratives. You might look ahead to Behn’s Oroonoko, which engages with these issues in very interesting ways through its telling of the story of an African slave in Surinam. You might look to literary critics who have engaged similar questions. You might look for historical documents to read in conversation with the seemingly more “fictional” texts, like Behn’s or The Tempest. You might want to read another play or fictional text that addresses similar issues. You might look to see what historians have written about these issues in this period in these regions. Imagine you want to write about how the circulation of a particular commodity affected labor practices, or environmental conditions, or consumption practices—from food to clothing and even to fashion. You will probably want to find primary documents relating to the commodity’s circulation in the period. You might also want to find the work of historians or literary scholars who have documented how these commodities circulated and analyzed their effects. These secondary texts might lead you to other interesting primary ones. Imagine you are interested in issues of captivity in a specific region; then you will probably want to find primary accounts of captives and/or the pirates or enemies who captured them.  Imagine you are interested in the ways Europeans relations with the New World and even the East Indies were triangulated by their relationships with each other. Then you might do additional research on the Black Legend.  Imagine you want to think about the legacy of early modern globalization in, for example, the sugar industry. You might then conduct research into practices of slavery in the early modern period and compare them to contemporary labor issues regarding sugar. You might find that documentary films are useful in this case. In most cases, you will probably need to do some combination of the kinds of research listed above. There is no set requirement for how many works you need to consult or incorporate. You will be done conducting your research when you can write an informed paper on your subject. You might end up with a list of works cited and a list of works consulted. The above topics are only some possibilities. As I suggested above, develop a topic that you are excited to delve into more deeply.

Some Resources:
Two good sources for primary documents from England are Early English Books Online and Colonial State Papers (also online). You can access both of these through Bobcat if you are logged in as an NYU user. You will want to do advanced searches and set some limits (e.g., of dates) and try many different ways to search for your topic suing a variety of different search terms and keywords. You will see that doing research is itself an exercise in creativity.  Note also options for variant spelling since spelling was not yet regularized. Look over your notes from your meeting with Nicole Brown.
The MLA Bibliography online will provide you access to many article of literary criticism.
Also searching JSTOR and Project Muse will give you access to many other academic articles in the humanities and social sciences. All of the databases mentioned above can be found through Bobcat.
Look to the footnotes of articles we have read and those that you discover doing your research. They might point you to additional interesting primary and secondary sources.


Suggestions for getting started:
Think about what this course, or a specific aspect of this course, has made you more curious about. What topics have we discussed, or even only touched upon, that you want to know more about? What concepts have we encountered that you would like to investigate further? How have works we’ve explored in this course raised new questions for you? What do you wish we had talked more about?  In the process of doing your work for the course, did new questions get raised for you? For example, while you were writing your last paper did you realize that there were other questions raised by your analysis? Or, did new questions surface that you didn’t have space to address? Do you want to pursue the questions from your first paper but in greater depth or through the lens of other disciplines?


Prospectus and Conference: The prospectus should be an approximately one-page document (250-300 words) that describes what your topic will be and how you will approach it. You might begin the prospectus with a question. What is the question you want to answer? Then begin to expand on how and why you will explore this question. What is the primary issue with which you are concerned? What do you hope to learn? How will you pursue the research for this question? What kinds of texts or works will you need to explore to conduct your research?  What are the sub-questions that interest you? Which disciplinary methods will help you answer your research question? Start doing some preliminary research to see what work has already been done in the field and also what other kinds of primary materials are available for you to explore in order to deepen your knowledge.
List a few likely and intriguing sources that you have found and hopefully at least had a chance to glance at. [This list does not count as part of the word count.]
Complete at least one detailed annotated bibliography entry for a source you have found and will likely use.

Conferences: I will have a conference with each of you about your topic. The prospectus will serve as the starting point for our conversation. In that conference we can talk about a variety of things: how to narrow your topic; how you might frame it; how you might expand your list of sources so that you can produce a thoughtful paper.
