### March 8th: Screening of The Battle of Algiers (1963)

- Armes, Roy (1987) Third World Film-Making and the West. University of California Press: 51-100.

### Essay

I found this to be very informative and a really important piece on how people were influenced by film during war-time, and periods when countries are colonizing different countries. The discourse could be applied to paintings or engravings as well (in my opinion). Since they both represent the medium of being created by getting selective footage. We are discussing something similar to this in my other class. The basic idea of depicting cultures or a particular subject through a particular lens creates a lot of biases, and that was also present in the "The Battle of Algiers". More than that, the motivation on what the artist wants to depict is also very influential. Nationalism and many other characteristics we noted in our previous classes make a huge difference in the general tone of a film an individual is making even if he/she is trying to be objective. Film makers from around the world are sometimes motivated by westerners watching their films, and so their motivations drive them to make decisions in the film that may or may not be accurate. They make additions or subtractions on different parts of the movie for a wider audience reach, and these decisions can change how much of the film is objectively true. A lot of the films we watch and the media we look at are created with particular lenses in mind, and some facts within these films can be misrepresentations of what actually happened. Just my experience in watching "The Battle of Algiers". I have a very different view than I have before because now I have something to visualize about that particular war. This is regardless of how much I knew about it in the past - the visual imagery impacts my thoughts a lot since I am a very visual learner.
